---
layout: post
title: Predicting the future?
category: society
tags: futurism
---

My <a href="http://jonathan.graehl.org">brother</a> pointed out this
article at <a href="http://squid314.livejournal.com/352406.html">http://squid314.livejournal.com/352406.html</a>. The author
makes the point that prediction markets could be the most efficient
and accurate way to reliably predict the future. A prediction market
is some kind of system where you can bet on future outcomes based on
hypotheses.

It's an interesting thought experiement to think that I could, instead
of investing my money in markets or specific companies or stocks, that
I could invest in very specific things that match my idealogical
interests. I have some vision for how things should or could be in the
world and I put money behind my hypothesis, that if say a certain
legistlation or law or initiative is adopted, then a favorable
measurable outcome can result. Or, alternatively, if not adopted, a
measurable and less favorable outcome will result. I view it as a kind
of altruistic gambling.

You can play with such prediction markets at
http://www.intrade.com/. There are currently many asinine questions on
there like "Will Lincoln win best picture." As such, it has apparently
been classified as off market trading or gambling by the US govt and I
think it's not currently advisable or possible to trade inside the US.

Personally, I hardly see how buying shares in AAPL vs betting that Les
Miserables wins best picture are much different. I suppose it has
something to do with there being no oversight into the obvious type of
corruption that could result in this type of trading.

What the article seems to be arguing, though, is that with enough
liquidity, that these problems are self-correcting?
